---
title: Redecorated house
dream: dated
date: 2023-06-20
---

I was going for regular runs down a strange motorway with high walls but no cars. One day during one of these runs I crossed the concrete central reservation but ended up falling over, dropping some paperwork I was carrying for some reason and getting muddy in the process.

As I lay on the ground a man in a red van pulled up and let me lie down in the back of his van and while recovering I recall looking up at the ceiling which was covered in loose red fabric.

When I got home after my run I found my ex-girlfriend outside my house talking to one of my neighbours. Once I entered the house everything was laid out differently in my living room. I was missing a load of book from my bookcase and they were strangely divided but everything was still recognisably there just shuffled around a little.

I heard a knock at the door and got up to answer it, at the door was my current girlfriend and I sheepishly said that this was pretty awkward but the two were seemingly good friends.

As I went upstairs most rooms had been redecorated, my guitars had moved from the bedroom to the staircase and were oriented horizontally with cappos sticking out onto the staircase.

The landing area at the top of the stairs was expanded with a smaller computer desk at the top of the staircase and a small child sized bed with a red woolen bedsheet situated in a white stone hearth in a corner of the room.

My bathroom had been retiled with large dark red tiles and there was a shower curtain to enter the room and another around the bath.

My bedroom was almost entirely white with white bedding, white walls and a cream coloured carpet.

On the top floor, there were dog bowls with food and water but no dogs, and the far wall was taped away behind plastic as it was in the process of being painted.

I walked back downstairs to the landing area and my ex just wanted to jump on the childs bed.
