---
title: Flying fish
dream: dated
date: 2024-02-24
---

I was at a theme park in Scotland where in a farm shop they were selling homemade pies at £60 for a box of 4. I thought this was extortionate so had a few samples and then just milled about after deciding not to buy any. I also ended up driving my car practically up to the front door of the farm shop and there were children running around the area, darting between hedges that surrounded the building.

I rarely eat fish and chips but on the way home we decided to order some. I picked them up, drove home and noticed the time was 18:27 before starting to eat the meal in my bedroom. I noticed while eating that there were hard pieces of what looked like circuit boards and cables in the fish. As I ate, I pulled out as much of the plastic as I could and placed the pieces on the table when some of the smaller pieces started to jitter and move. One skittered away and fell off the table and the largest piece started to make a dragon fly flapping type of movement and humming. Eventually it started hovering via its wings and growing in size and even appeared to have eyes on the top of it before taking flight around the table almost seeming to follow me.

I was with a group of people at this point and I recall mumbling something about "this was why I don't eat fish...". The other people I was with found this hilarious while I ran faster and faster around the small circular table trying to avoid the flying fish touching me when it called out my name in a high pitched young girls voice.
